Hey there, Polycasters.
Rob here.
Animation is one of the
hallmarks of a really great web
experience.
Not only does it make
your app just look cool.
But you can use them to
navigate the user from one
area of interest to the next.
And ultimately, that makes
everything much more engaging.
Now, in a previous
video, I showed you
how to animate a single item
using an animation behavior.
But today I want
to teach you how
to animate whole
sections of your app,
bringing shared elements
from one state to the next.
And to do this, we're going
to use a component called
Neon Animated Pages.
OK.
So this is the first thing
we're going to build.
It is a very simple application.
And we are going to add a little
Settings menu to this page,
so that when you
click on it, it's
going to do some really
nifty transitions.
It's going to actually
slide the other page in.
And when you cancel it,
it's going to sort of push
the old page back over.
Right?
So pretty cool stuff there.
To start off, we are going
to jump into our Index file
for this project.
And the first thing
we're going to do
is we are just going to
load in some imports.
So we're going to pull in
Neon Animated Pages as well
as the iron-flex-layout
classes, which we talked about
in our last episode, so we
can use some layout classes.
And then down inside
of my body, I'm
going to just drop in
a dom-bind template,
so I can use data
bindings in this space.
I'm going to add a
neon-animated-pages element
right there.
And you can see that I've also
gone ahead and actually applied
some of those layout classes,
so that my body is using flexbox
to allow me to, as
you'll see in a second,
flex the
neon-animated-pages element,
so it takes up
the entire screen.
I'm also going to give
it a selected attribute.
And this is just like what
we did in our Iron Pages demo
last time, where Neon
Animated Pages is going
to look at whatever the
selected index is and display
that child.
So if the selected
index is 0, it's
going to display
its first child.
If it's 1, it'll display
the second child, and so on,
just like Iron Pages does.
So that gives us a little bit
of a boilerplate to work from.
I'm going to add an
ID to this template,
so I can select it
down in JavaScript.
And then I will write
out a little script tag.
And just go ahead and
querySelector for my app there.
And give it an initial
selected value of 0.
So this way, Animated
Pages is going
to try to display
its first child.
We're going to drop
in two more elements--
list-page and settings-page.
Those are going to be the
two elements that we're
going to transition between.
So I'll go add some
imports for them.
And then we are pretty
much ready to rock.
So let's start by
defining what the list
page is going to look like.
So we can switch
over to that tab.
And it's pretty
typical element here.
I've got my style tag
and my template tab
collapsed right
now, because they're
full of just placeholder markup.
So if I expand that,
you can see there's
a bunch of HTML in there.
But you don't actually need
to worry about any of that,
because it's all just
dummy placeholder content
for the sake of the demo.
So a lot of stuff, but you
can pretty much ignore it.
To get rolling,
though, I'm going
to import a few items here.
I'm going to import the
neon-animatable-behavior, which
you might remember from our
previous episode on Neon
Animation.
And then I'm going
to pull in two
animations--
slide-from-left animation
and fade-out-animation.
So slide-from-left
is going to make
the page appear to come
from outside the left edge
of the screen onto the
center of the page like that.
And then the fade-out-animation,
as it implies,
is just going to have
the page fade out.
So then let us go down
here and like we've
done in previous
animation examples,
we'll create a
properties object.
We'll create an animation
config property.
And then I'm going to give
it two animations, an entry
and an exit animation.
And we're going to use those
animations that we imported.
So our entry animation
will be slide from left.
Our exit will be fade out.
We also need to
remember to include
that neon-animatable-behavior.
Now, if this does not
look familiar to you,
please, please, please go
check out our previous episode
on Neon Animations.
That will explain how
these behaviors are working
and give you a little
bit more context.
But for those of you who
are familiar with this,
we can just kind of
steam right along.
So we've added that behavior.
We've got our animation
object all set up.
So the list page is
pretty much done.
I think we're ready to switch
over to our settings page.
And again, you know, it's
full of dummy content
in the template and
in the style tag.
So nothing that you really need
to worry about there just yet.
But we're going to
do the same thing.
We're going to import the
neon-animatable-behavior
and then a couple transitions.
Slide from right.
And then slide right.
So slide from right
means basically
come from off screen
to being on screen.
And slide right means you're
already on screen, push off
to the right-hand side.
Cool?
So just like we were
doing with our list page,
we're going to go ahead
and implement the behavior.
So we're going to roll
in neon-animatable.
We're going to
create a properties
object with an animation
config property.
Entry and exit animations.
And for entry,
we're going to say
that we want this guy
to-- I believe we're going
to slide in from the right.
Yep.
And then for our exit, we
will slide out to the right.
And both times, the
node is just going
to refer to this element itself.
So we've got our two pages.
They've got their animations
already set up and ready to go.
Let's switch over
to the browser.
We can actually preview this.
And what I'm going to do is
a little dev tools trickery,
which you've seen me do before.
I've got neon-animated-pages
selected right here
in the dev tools.
And I've got my console open.
So I can just hit $0,
and that will actually
allow me to grab a reference
to the neon-animated-pages
element.
And I can just set selected
to a hard-coded value.
So I'll just switch it to 1.
And you'll see what happens.
The page changes.
I switch it back to 0.
The page goes back, right?
Set it to 1.
Page changes.
Back to 0, page goes back.
Now, we've got this
really cool relationship
between these animations.
You can see how they
sort of play off
of one another, which looks
really nice on perhaps
a mobile device of some kind.
It is a little bit
of a bummer, though,
to have to manually change the
selected value in this way.
So let's fix that.
And what we're
going to do is we're
going to have our
elements dispatch events.
When we hear those events, we'll
tell the animated pages element
to update.
So we can actually pop
inside of the template there.
And I'm going to take
the Settings button
and just give it
an on-tap handler
and a method called
showSettings.
And then to implement that,
I'm just going to fire an event
called showSettings.
I'll do the exact same
thing on the Settings page.
I'll find its Cancel button,
another on-tap handler.
This time we'll say showList.
And we'll do another event.
Dispatcher basically.
So we're just going to fire off
another event called showList.
And then back in
our Index page, this
is going to be a
little quick and dirty.
But what I'm going
to do is I'll just
listen at the document
level for those events.
So normally, you would probably
have this neon-animated-pages
and these elements.
You'd probably have
this inside of maybe,
like, a bigger
element of some kind.
So you could use,
like, on-dash listeners
to listen to these things.
You'd be like, oh, yeah, I want
to listen to on-show-settings.
And when I hear that,
that's when I'll
update my selected property.
In this case, we're just doing
a quick little demo here,
so we'll just listen
right on the document.
With that in place, I
think we're actually good.
We can switch back to Chrome.
And then when we click our
little button up there,
it's going to fire
the event, which
is going to trigger a
change in animated pages.
And we'll click
that Cancel button.
And likewise.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, if you want
all of your pages
to use the same
transitions, it would
be really inconvenient to have
to copy and paste that code
over and over and over again.
But thankfully, we can
work around that using
a feature that's built
into the element itself.
OK.
For our second demo, I've got
this very simple transition
thing.
Each one of these is a page.
Each one of these big colored
blocks is actually a page.
And as I'm clicking, you
can see that they all
use the exact same
transition animation.
So looking at our code, it
looks just like our old example.
We've got a neon-animated-pages
element here.
Right?
We're using some layout classes.
We're flexing it.
We've got a selected
binding right there.
And then I've got
this little handler
that I've added just
for demo purposes
called on-tap, where I've
got this next method.
And I'm just looping through
possible selected values.
So we're incrementing up
until we reach the max.
And then we're
looping around again.
Now, I've got the same element
in each of these slots, right?
And I know that I'm going
to want all of these
to use the same transition.
Even if I didn't have
the same element here,
maybe I would want all of them
to use the same transition.
So instead of having to go into
each and every one and copy
and paste that behavior
over and over again,
what I'm going to do
is just take advantage
of this convenience feature
that animated-pages offers,
where I can go up to
the top, and I can just
import the animations
that I want it to use,
as if we were building
an animatable element.
But I'll just pull in
a scale-up animation
and a fade-out animation.
And then we're just going
to tell animated pages,
hey, for all of your
entry animations,
just play the scale-up
animation for all of these.
It doesn't matter what it is.
Just play that.
And for all the exit
animations, just play
the fade-out animation.
So if you know you
want all of your pages
to use the exact same
intro and exit animations,
this is some
shorthand that you can
do that will save you quite
a lot of typing if you have
a bunch of different
elements that all basically
need the same transitions.
So with this in place, we're
actually pretty good to go.
We can switch back to the
browser and click on the thing.
And we're going to get
that exact same behavior.
And it's saved us
quite a lot of typing.
Now, the last thing
that I want to touch on
is something that I promised
at the beginning of the video--
this idea of being able to take
elements and transition them
from one page to
the next, right?
Actually pulling along
what neon-animated-pages
refers to as shared elements.
So let me show you an
example of doing that.
I've got a very simple app here.
And it's got this sort of
large Sign In button of sorts.
And when I go click on
that Sign In button,
you'll see that it's
going to transition
and become the header
of my next page.
So let's do that again, right?
So I've actually
taken that element,
and sort of morphed it into
an element on another page,
and sort of carried it
from page one to page two.
So again, this is a
shared element transition.
And in particular, this one
is called a hero transition
or a hero animation.
So implementing this is
actually pretty easy.
Though the effects themselves
look very sophisticated,
they're pretty easy to
implement once you know how.
So in my Index page, again,
just like the previous examples,
I've got
neon-animated-pages, right?
I'm flexing it.
It's got the selected
binding there.
We're using a little
cheating next handler
to advance the page.
And I've got two
elements inside of here.
One is called main-page,
though maybe I should
have called that sign-in-page.
But main-page.
And detail-page, which is going
to be the page with the header.
So this is our main page.
And I want you to
notice that we've
got this div with an
ID of circle here.
So this is really,
really important.
And we're going to come
back to this later.
But just know that it
exists inside of this page.
And before we do anything, I'm
going to go up and check out
our imports.
So instead of the
neon-animatable-behavior,
I've actually got
this thing which
is very similar, though
an even longer name,
called neon shared element
animatable behavior.
So this actually implements
all the same stuff
as the neon-animatable-behavior.
But it gives us this
magical shared element
extra awesome sauce, which
we will use in just a second.
And then I've got
two animations that I
pulled in here-- hero-animation
and fade-out-animation.
So let's implement both
of those right now.
So we'll go down
and just like we've
done in previous examples,
we will add the behavior
to our element.
So this time, we're going to
add the neon shared element
animatable behavior.
We will create a
properties object.
And in that
properties object, we
will drop in an
animation config object.
We'll have entry
and exit animations.
The entry animation
doesn't really matter,
because we're not going to
play it in this example,
but I'll just
throw one in there.
The exit animation, though--
pay attention here--
I'm actually creating an array
of animations-- so animations
that would be playing
simultaneously.
The first one is going to
be that hero-animation.
And we're going to
give it an ID property.
And we're going to say that
we want to hero-animate
a thing with the idea of hero.
And this does not refer to a CSS
ID, which confused me at first.
So this is not a CSS ID.
This is an ID that we are
going to define in JavaScript.
So kind of keep that
in mind for the moment.
And then we're going to say
that this page right here
is the from page, meaning that
this hero element that we're
going to refer to is
coming from this page,
and it's going to another page,
which we will demonstrate when
we implement the next element.
And then we're
going to implement
a second animation, which is
just going to be fade-out.
And we're going
to basically say,
everything else on this
page should fade out
when we're exiting.
So let's go define
this hero ID thing.
And the way we're going to do
that is through this shared
elements object.
So remember, I've got
this circle up here,
right, this thing
with ID of circle.
And that's really what I
want to hero-transition.
So I'm going to add this
shared elements object.
And I'm going to
tell it-- by the way,
it looks a lot like our
animation config object.
It's a value that turns a
function [INAUDIBLE] an object.
But we're going to say
that when we say hero,
what we're actually talking
about is this .$circle.
And the reason why we do
this is because this term
is going to be used
in both elements--
the from page and the to page.
So it's a shared term
referring to different things
on different pages.
So here, hero refers
to that circle.
Let's go implement the
next page, the detail page.
And you'll see that we've got
the same imports pretty much.
We've got shared-element,
hero-animation,
fade-out-animation, fade-in.
We're going to also
implement our behavior.
We're going to drop in an
animation config object.
And for the exit animation,
doesn't really matter,
because we're not
going to play one.
But I'll just add
an exit animation.
But here we are again
with the entry animation.
Again, it's an
array of animations.
And note that we're
using the hero animation.
The ID that we're
referring to is still hero.
But now we're saying
that this is the to page.
So the first element
was the from page.
This is the to page
where hero is going to.
And then for the rest of
the content on the page,
we're just going to fade it
in when we're doing entry.
And then we're going to go
define its shared elements
object.
And what we're
going to say here is
that when we say
hero in this element,
we're referring to our element
with the ID of header, right?
So hero in the other
one refers to circle.
Hero over here
refers to our header.
And it is up to
neon-animated-pages now
and it is up to that
hero animation behavior
to sort of interpolate
between A and B,
right, to get us
from there to here.
Right?
So let's go and
give that a shot.
We will go back to our browser
and click on our circle.
And you see we get that nice
transition over to our header.
Now, this is a pretty simple
implementation of this pattern
though it is a
really cool effect.
But what I'd like to show
you is if you go over
to the Elements catalog at
elements.polymerproject.org.
And you click on this Neon
Animation button down here,
there is this
really awesome guide
full of really helpful
stuff on Neon Animations.
But at the bottom, there are
all of these really great demos.
And one in particular, which
I sort of based this on,
is this one called, like,
Squares to Circles or Circles
to Squares, I think.
And it is a much more
advanced implementation
of what I just showed you,
where all of these circles
are actually dynamic
hero transitions, which
is really cool.
But it involves a
fair bit more code.
So once you feel like you
understand the original hero
animation, go
check this one out.
Go try it out and
see how you do.
But now you know
everything that you
need to start creating some
really, really sick animations
in your Polymer apps.
So the next time you want to
add a really fancy animation
to your application,
you can just say,
hey, there's an
element for that.
Now, if you've enjoyed this
video, be sure to go down
and click that little
Subscribe button.
That's actually how we
get to keep making these.
And if you have questions,
you can leave them for me
down in the comments.
Or hit me up on a social
network of your choosing
at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]